# Registering Actions

[[toc]]

Once you have defined an action, you are ready to attach it to a resource. Each resource generated by Nova contains an `actions` method. To attach an action to a resource, you should simply add it to the array of actions returned by this method:

```php
/**
 * Get the actions available for the resource.
 *
 * @param  \Laravel\Nova\Http\Requests\NovaRequest  $request
 * @return array
 */
public function actions(NovaRequest $request)
{
    return [
        new Actions\EmailAccountProfile
    ];
}
```

Alternatively, you may use the `make` method to instantiate your action. Any arguments passed to the `make` method will be passed to the constructor of your action:

```php
/**
 * Get the actions available for the resource.
 *
 * @param  \Laravel\Nova\Http\Requests\NovaRequest  $request
 * @return array
 */
public function actions(NovaRequest $request)
{
    return [
        Actions\EmailAccountProfile::make()
    ];
}
```

## Authorization

If you would like to only expose a given action to certain users, you may invoke the `canSee` method when registering your action. The `canSee` method accepts a closure which should return `true` or `false`. The closure will receive the incoming HTTP request:

```php
use App\Models\User;
use Laravel\Nova\Http\Requests\NovaRequest;

/**
 * Get the actions available for the resource.
 *
 * @param  \Laravel\Nova\Http\Requests\NovaRequest  $request
 * @return array
 */
public function actions(NovaRequest $request)
{
    return [
        (new Actions\EmailAccountProfile)->canSee(function ($request) {
            return $request->user()->can(
                'emailAnyAccountProfile', User::class
            );
        }),
    ];
}
```

You may also use a variety of request methods to get the currently selected resources:

| Method                 | Return Type              | Description
|:-----------------------|:-------------------------|:----------------------
| `allResourcesSelected` | `bool`                   | Returns `true` if "Select all" selected. 
| `selectedResourceIds`  | `\Illuminate\Support\Collection\|null` | Returns `null` if "Select all" selected or returns a collection of selected resource IDs.
| `selectedResources`    | `\Illuminate\Support\Collection\|null` | Returns `null` if "Select all" selected or returns a collection of resource models.

### Resource Specific Authorization

Sometimes a user may be able to "see" that an action exists but only "run" that action against certain resources. You may use the `canRun` method in conjunction with the `canSee` method to have full control over authorization in this scenario. The callback passed to the `canRun` method receives the incoming HTTP request as well as the model the user would like to run the action against:

```php
/**
 * Get the actions available for the resource.
 *
 * @param  \Laravel\Nova\Http\Requests\NovaRequest  $request
 * @return array
 */
public function actions(NovaRequest $request)
{
    return [
        (new Actions\EmailAccountProfile)->canSee(function ($request) {
            return true;
        })->canRun(function ($request, $user) {
            return $request->user()->can('emailAccountProfile', $user);
        }),
    ];
}
```

### Authorization via Resource Policy

In addition to the `canSee` and `canRun` authorization methods, Nova will also determine if the resource's corresponding model policy has `runAction` and `runDestructiveAction` methods. Finally, Nova will determine if the user is authorized to `update` the model or, in the case of destructive actions, `delete` the model based on the model's policy methods.

The priority for authorizing the execution of a Nova action is best explained by the following list of steps:

1. Use the return value of the action's `canRun` method if the method is defined.
2. Use the return value of the underlying model policy's `runAction` or `runDestructiveAction` methods if those methods have been defined.
3. Use the return value of the underlying model policy's `update` or `delete` methods if those methods have been defined.
4. Otherwise, return `false`.

## Action Visibility

By default, actions are visible on both the resource index and detail pages. However, you may customize an action's visibility by invoking one of the following methods on the action when registering your action with a particular resource:

- `onlyOnIndex`
- `exceptOnIndex`
- `showOnIndex`
- `onlyOnDetail`
- `exceptOnDetail`
- `showOnDetail`
- `onlyInline`
- `exceptInline`
- `showInline`

### Inline Actions

Inline actions are actions that are displayed directly on the index table row of a given resource. You may specify that an action should be available inline by calling the `showInline` method when attaching the action to the resource:

```php
/**
 * Get the actions available for the resource.
 *
 * @param  \Laravel\Nova\Http\Requests\NovaRequest  $request
 * @return array
 */
public function actions(NovaRequest $request)
{
    return [
        (new ConsolidateTransaction())->showInline()
    ];
}
```

## Standalone Actions

Typically, actions are executed against resources selected on a resource index or detail page. However, sometimes you may have an action that does not require any resources / models to run. In these situations, you may register the action as a "standalone" action by invoking the `standalone` method when registering the action. These actions always receives an empty collection of models in their `handle` method:

```php
/**
 * Get the actions available for the resource.
 *
 * @param  \Laravel\Nova\Http\Requests\NovaRequest  $request
 * @return array
 */
public function actions(NovaRequest $request)
{
    return [
        Actions\InviteUser::make()->standalone()
    ];
}
```

## Sole Actions

Sometimes you may have actions that should only ever be run on a single resource / model. By registering the action as a `sole` action, Nova will only display the action when a single resource is selected. Sole actions still receive a collection in their `handle` method, but the collection will only contain a single model:

```php
/**
 * Get the actions available for the resource.
 *
 * @param  \Laravel\Nova\Http\Requests\NovaRequest  $request
 * @return array
 */
public function actions(NovaRequest $request)
{
    return [
        Actions\BanUser::make()->sole()
    ];
}
```

## Pivot Actions

Typically, actions operate on a resource. However, you may also attach actions to `belongsToMany` fields so that they can operate on pivot / intermediate table records. To accomplish this, you may chain the `actions` method onto your field's definition:

```php
BelongsToMany::make('Roles')
    ->actions(fn () => [new Actions\MarkAsActive]),
```

Once the action has been attached to the field, you will be able to select the action and execute it from the relationship index on the parent resource's detail page.

#### Custom Pivot Action Name

By default, the pivot actions within the action dropdown menu will be grouped as "Pivot", but you may customize this name using the `referToPivotAs` method:

```php
BelongsToMany::make('Roles')
    ->actions(fn () => [new Actions\MarkAsActive])
    ->referToPivotAs('Role Assignment'),
```

## Closure Actions

Closure actions allow you to create actions without defining the action as a separate class. To define a closure action, call the `using` factory method on the `Action` class, passing the action's name and a closure. The closure given to the `using` method receives the same parameters as a dedicated action's `handle` method:

```php 
public function actions()
{
    return [
        Action::using('Deactivate User', function (ActionFields $fields, Collection $models) {
            $models->each->update(['active' => false]);
        }),
    ];
}
```

:::warning Queueing Closure Actions

Closure actions are not queueable since they cannot use the `ShouldQueue` trait provided by Laravel.
:::

## Static Actions

When using Nova, it's common to define actions to accomplish simple tasks like downloading files, redirecting users, or opening new windows. Luckily, Nova provides static actions, allowing you to accomplish a variety of common tasks without writing a dedicated action of your own.

### Redirect Actions

The `redirect` action will redirect the user to an external URL. To create a `redirect` action, pass the action name and the URL you would like to redirect the user to:

```php
public function actions()
{
    return [
        Action::redirect('Visit Stripe Dashboard', 'https://stripe.com')->standalone(),
    ];
}
```

### Internal Redirect Actions

The `internalRedirect` action will push the user to an internal page inside Nova. To create an `internalRedirect` action, simply provide the action's name and path to the method. If needed, query string values may be provided as the third argument to the `internalRedirect` method:

```php
use Laravel\Nova\Nova;

public function actions()
{
    return [
        Action::internalRedirect('View Logs', Nova::url('/logs'))->standalone(),

        Action::internalRedirect('View Logs', Nova::url('/logs'), ['page' => 2])->standalone(),
    ];
}
```

### Danger Actions

The `danger` action displays an error toast notification to the user. For instance, your Nova application may have an action that was previously available but is no longer available, and to avoid confusion you may wish to notify the user of its removal. To accomplish this, pass the action name and the message to display to the user:

```php
public function actions()
{
    return [
        Action::danger('Disable User Account', 'This action is no longer available!'),
    ];
}
```

### Custom Modal Actions

The `modal` action allows you to display a custom modal to the user. To create a `modal` action, pass the action name, your custom Vue component, and any additional data that should be made available to the component:

```php
public function actions()
{
    return [
        Action::modal('Download User Summary', 'UserSummary', function ($user) {
            return [
                'user_id' => $user->getKey(),
            ];
        })->sole(),
    ];
}
```

### Open URLs in New Tabs

The `openInNewTab` action opens a URL in a new browser tab. To create an `openInNewTab` action, pass the action name and the URL that should be opened in the new browser tab:

```php
public function actions()
{
    return [
        Action::openInNewTab('Visit Stripe Dashboard', 'https://stripe.com')->standalone(),
    ];
}
```

You may also configure the URL to be unique for a resource by defining a Sole Action:

```php
Action::openInNewTab('Visit User Profile', function ($user) {
    return route('user.profile', $user);
})->sole(),
```

### Downloading Files

The `downloadUrl` action downloads the file at the given URL. To create a `downloadUrl` action, pass the action name and the URL of the file to be downloaded:

```php
public function actions()
{
    return [
        Action::downloadUrl('Download Users Summaries', function () {
            return route('users.summaries');
        })->standalone(),
    ];
}
```

## Action Confirmation Modal

### Fullscreen / Custom Modal Sizes

When running an action, a confirmation modal is typically displayed to the user, allowing them an opportunity to cancel the pending operation. To indicate that the confirmation modal should display as fullscreen, you may invoke the `fullscreen` method when registering your action with a given resource:

```php
/**
 * Get the actions available for the resource.
 *
 * @param  \Laravel\Nova\Http\Requests\NovaRequest  $request
 * @return array
 */
public function actions(NovaRequest $request)
{
    return [
        Actions\EmailAccountProfile::make()->fullscreen()
    ];
}
```

Alternatively, you may further customize the maximum width of the customization modal using the `size` method:

```php
/**
 * Get the actions available for the resource.
 *
 * @param  \Laravel\Nova\Http\Requests\NovaRequest  $request
 * @return array
 */
public function actions(NovaRequest $request)
{
    return [
        // "sm", "md", "lg", "xl", "2xl", "3xl", "4xl", "5xl", "6xl", or "7xl"...
        Actions\EmailAccountProfile::make()->size('7xl')
    ];
}
```

### Disabling Action Confirmation

To disable the action confirmation modal and therefore run actions immediately, you can invoke the `withoutConfirmation` method when registering your action with a given resource:

```php
/**
 * Get the actions available for the resource.
 *
 * @param  \Laravel\Nova\Http\Requests\NovaRequest  $request
 * @return array
 */
public function actions(NovaRequest $request)
{
    return [
        Actions\EmailAccountProfile::make()->withoutConfirmation()
    ];
}
```
