# Tools

[[toc]]

## Overview

Sometimes, your business may need additional functionality that isn't provided by Nova. For this reason, Nova allows you to build custom tools and add them to the Nova sidebar. Nova tools are incredibly customizable, as they primarily consist of a single-file Vue component that is totally under your control. Within your Vue component, you are free to make HTTP requests to any controller within your application.

## Defining Tools

Custom tools may be generated using the `nova:tool` Artisan command. By default, all new tools will be placed in the `nova-components` directory of your application. When generating a tool using the `nova:tool` command, the tool name you pass to the command should follow the Composer `vendor/package` format. So, if we were building a price tracker tool, we might run the following command:

```bash
php artisan nova:tool acme/price-tracker
```

When generating a tool, Nova will prompt you to install the tool's NPM dependencies, compile its assets, and update your application's `composer.json` file. All custom tools are registered with your application as a Composer "path" repository.

Nova tools include all of the scaffolding necessary to build your tool. Each tool even contains its own `composer.json` file and is ready to be shared with the world on GitHub or the source control provider of your choice.

## Registering Tools

Nova tools may be registered in your application's `NovaServiceProvider`. Your service provider contains a `tools` method, which returns an array of tools. To register your tool, simply add it to the list of tools returned by this method. For example, if you created a Nova tool named `acme/price-tracker`, you may register the tool like so:

```php
use Acme\PriceTracker\PriceTracker;

/**
 * Get the cards that should be listed in the Nova sidebar.
 *
 * @return array
 */
public function tools()
{
    return [
        new PriceTracker,
    ];
}
```

## Building Tools

Each tool generated by Nova includes its own service provider and "tool" class. Using the `price-tracker` tool as an example, the tool class will be located at `src/PriceTracker.php`. The tool class must be registered with your application's `NovaServiceProvider` as previously noted.

The tool's service provider is also located within the `src` directory of the tool, and is registered in your tool's `composer.json` file so that it will be auto-loaded by the Laravel framework.

### Authorization

If you would like to only expose a given tool to certain users, you may chain the `canSee` method onto your tool's registration. The `canSee` method accepts a Closure which should return `true` or `false`. The Closure will receive the incoming HTTP request:

```php
use Acme\PriceTracker\PriceTracker;

/**
 * Get the tools that should be listed in the Nova sidebar.
 *
 * @return array
 */
public function tools()
{
    return [
        (new PriceTracker)->canSee(function ($request) {
            return false;
        }),
    ];
}
```

### Routing

Often, you will need to define Laravel routes that are called by your tool. When Nova generates your tool, it creates `routes/inertia.php` and `routes/api.php` route files. If needed, you may use these files to define any routes your tool requires.

All routes within this file are automatically defined inside a route group by your tool's `ToolServiceProvider`. The route group specifies that Inertia.js routes within the group should receive a `/nova/tool-name` URL prefix and all "API routes" that will be invoked from the client via `Nova.request()` should receive a `/nova-vendor/tool-name` URL prefix, where `tool-name` is the "kebab-case" name of your tool.

You are free to modify this route group definition, but you should ensure your Nova tool will easily co-exist with other Nova packages.

#### Routing Authorization

Your Nova tool is generated with an `Authorize` middleware. This middleware automatically determines whether the authenticated user can "see" the tool before it processes any requests to routes within your tool's route group; however, you are free to modify this middleware if needed.

### Navigation

Your Nova tool class contains a `menu` method. This method should return a custom menu that renders your tool's sidebar links. You are free to customize this method as needed:

```php
use Laravel\Nova\Menu\MenuSection;

/**
 * Build the menu that renders the navigation links for the tool.
 *
 * @param  \Illuminate\Http\Request  $request
 * @return mixed
 */
public function menu(Request $request)
{
    return MenuSection::make('Price Tracker')
        ->path('/price-tracker')
        ->icon('server');
}
```

#### Sidebar Icons

Nova utilizes the free [Heroicons UI](https://github.com/sschoger/heroicons-ui) icon set. Feel free to use these icons in other portions of your application to match the look and feel of Nova's built-in icons.

### Assets

When Nova generates your tool, `resources/js` and `resources/css` directories are generated for you. These directories contain your tool's JavaScript and CSS. The primary files of interest in these directories are: `resources/js/components/Tool.vue` and `resources/css/tool.css`.

The `Tool.vue` file is a single-file Vue component that contains your tool's front-end. From this file, you are free to build your tool however you want. Your tool can make HTTP requests using Axios via `Nova.request()`.

#### Registering Assets

Your Nova tool class contains a `boot` method. This method is executed when the tool is registered and available. By default, this method registers your tool's compiled assets so that they will be available to the Nova front-end:

```php
use Laravel\Nova\Nova;
use Laravel\Nova\Events\ServingNova;

/**
 * Perform any tasks that need to happen on tool registration.
 *
 * @return void
 */
public function boot()
{
    Nova::serving(function (ServingNova $event) {
        Nova::script('price-tracker', __DIR__.'/../dist/js/tool.js');
        Nova::style('price-tracker', __DIR__.'/../dist/css/tool.css');
    });
}
```

#### JavaScript Bootstrap & Components

Your component is bootstrapped and Inertia.js components are registered in the `resources/js/tool.js` file. You are free to modify this file or register additional components here as needed:

```js
Nova.booting((Vue, store) => {
  Vue.component('PriceTrackerHeader', require('./components/Header').default)
})
```

#### Compiling Assets

Your Nova tool contains a `webpack.mix.js` file, which is generated when Nova creates your tool. You may build your tool using the NPM `dev` and `prod` commands:

```bash
# Compile your assets for local development...
npm run dev

# Compile and minify your assets...
npm run prod
```

In addition, you may run the NPM `watch` command to auto-compile your assets when they are changed:

```bash
npm run watch
```

#### Vue Page Components & Nova Plugins

Vue page components contained by your tool have access to all of the components and plugins registered by Nova, including `v-tooltip`. For example, your tool's `resources/js/pages/Tool.vue` stub will contain a default page title which is managed by the Inertia.js `Head` component:

```js
<template>
  <Head title="PriceTracker" />
</template>
```
